Amazing, all right, hello everyone.
My name is Sophie, and today I'm gonna be presenting my
research with my advisor, Nikhil Garg, studying social media through
the atmosphere, and I'm so excited to be here today and
meet everyone whose presences I'm recognized from online, cool to
see you all in person.
Yeah, so just a brief kind of background, Nikhil and I
are researchers at Cornell Tech, and our research area is studying algorithms
and society, so kind of the social aspects of recommendation systems and
feeds, understanding dynamics and how to improve systems along social axes, understanding
social media as attention markets, and studying human AI collaboration.
Today in our talk, I'm going to be talking first about
our work aiding and studying scientific communication on Academic BlueS
ky.
Next I'll talk about, we believe is the potential for studying
novel feed experiments through the custom feed ecosystem, as well as novel
interfaces through the app protocol.
So I'll start with Academic BlueSky.
So the backstory for this project is really that Nikhil and
I had been doing a project researching fairness and recommendation.
It was a theory project, which is my kind of original research
area, and we had worked with a master student who built a
recommender for archive preprints.
And we used this to simulate kind of market outcomes in this
like recommendation system.
And we were curious, what happens in real data?
How can we study the fairness outcomes in attention markets on a
real deployed system?
How do we experiment?
And what this really looks like in the literature is either you
run a lab experiment, you build some sort of simulated recommender,
you get people to interact with it and see their behavior.
Another option is to deploy browser extensions.
So on Twitter, you get someone to download your extension and engage
with Twitter and you will like manually or you will academically re-
rank the post that Twitter is returning.
And this is, you know, also friction-full because you have to
recruit participants and get them to download the extension and engage with
it.
And then the final option is to collaborate with a platform.
But these are kind of few, these opportunities are few and far
between.
So suddenly, November, 2024, many academics were using blue sky and in
particular, looking for a personalized academic experience, which is something that we
were really excited about building.
And so Nikila had this idea, let's build a custom
feed for academics on blue sky.
And so we had a little hackathon and built paper sky
just which is a custom feed for academics showing posts about papers
from accounts you're following.
So it's a very simple algorithm and our objective here is
to both support academic research discovery, support academics on blue sky, but
also, you know, in terms of our research, enable novel experiments to
study open research questions.
So, yeah, we launched last March a year ago and we've
seen like kind of sustained usage over that time and also kind
of very positive testimonials from people saying that this has really
improved their experience using blue sky as academics and being able to
see, you know, filtered academic content in one place that's personalized
to them.
And we, with the data that we've collected from paper sky
just, we can look at interesting questions here.
So one, you know, plot from our paper is looking at the
histogram of archive categories across archive posts on blue sky that aren
't associated with a bot account which we've labeled.
And so this is sort of the distribution across all posts, but
then you can ask what is the distribution of posts that we
sent to users on paper sky just when they requested the feed.
And you can see that it's a bit like higher on
the AI and LG is like machine learning as well as like
computer vision and linguistics.
And then similarly, the posts that people interact with, you can also
look at like what are people interacting with in this content on
sky just that we've returned.
So that's just an example of like one of the figures
we have in our paper and these kind of questions that we
can now look at with this data of people using our feed.
And there's like a variety of kind of spin off projects
that we're working on here, one being kind of like looking
at doing social science analyses of what people are talking about and
working on a blue sky and leveraging emerging NLP tools like
sparse auto encoders to do sort of topic analyses.
We're trying to extend paper sky just to include trending content
and more sophisticated recommendations to a discovery and discourse and also running
experiments on paper sky just to, you know, AB test different, different
algorithms and also answer interesting science of science questions.
And this leads to kind of the novel feed experiments section of
the talk.
So we've been piloting, um, experiments on blue, uh, on
paper sky just particularly, um, you know, including reposts versus
not including reposts.
Um, but one thing that I'm really excited to talk about
today is, um, some research that we've been doing, um, Oh,
this is out of order, but yes, we did have the pilot
experiment, um, which kind of shows some weak results.
Um, but excited to talk about this project we're doing in
collaboration with Andra, uh, who runs the trend.
The trending news feed, um, and grays who hosts the trending
news feed.
Um, so this is a really cool feed, um, uh, that, uh,
includes posts sourced from, uh, around 300 verified news organizations and
has around kind of 10,000 daily users.
Um, and we're excited to answer some interesting research questions.
So there's this exciting paper from 2006, um, commonly known as
like the music lab experiment, which studies things about, um, rich get
richer effects, which I think got mentioned on the panel earlier today.
Um, which basically shows that kind of like little random disturbances
in what content gets exposure early on in the process can kind
of, um, uh, result in these drastically different long-term outcomes.
Um, and, and change like whether, uh, posts get exposed, um, uh,
according really in terms of like are the highest quality posts being
shown.
Um, so we want to understand yet to what extent does initial
randomness and account size produce these rich get richer effects in
a real social setting.
Cause this is like a lab experiment.
Um, and also how can we solve this?
Like how can we mitigate these effects and try to get posts
being shown that are, um, you know, truly the, the quality content
that people want to see.
Um, and kind of smooth out this randomness and kind of
the bigger picture here that we're excited about, like custom feed
experiments on blue sky is that, yeah, there's kind of a
bunch of new directions for feed experiments.
There's new stakeholders, feed creators who are community members who are
passionate about showing their community, the content that they want to see.
And potentially those algorithms that are good for different communities are, you
know, yeah, heterogeneous and, and, and, and different communities want to
see different things.
Um, as kind of like with this music lab, uh, extension that
we're thinking about, it's an opportunity to ask like these
age old social media questions in new settings and, um, in deployment.
Um, and yeah, um, as I was saying, new, new questions about
how this is heterogeneous across, um, communities.
And finally, I want to talk about, um, novel interfaces through the
app protocol.
Um, so there's a couple of things that we've been
working on here.
Uh, in particular, we've been thinking about how can we kind
of, um, allow people customization experiment, uh, experience on their paper sky,
just, um, as well as this project led by Kenny Pung
from my lab, um, on, um, kind of, uh, extending outside of
the linear feed structure, um, to trails and, and these post linear
feeds.
Um, so the customization interface here, um, so custom feeds gives user
algorithmic choice and there's kind of been a lot of
interest, I think, in academia and industry in, um, sort of giving
users more agency over their, their algorithms and their online experiences.
Um, but this leads to a lot of research questions such as
like, what, how much granularity do users want?
Um, you know, are they, is the feed, um, you know, choosing
between different feeds that are created by other people, is that kind
of the sweet spot?
Or do people want like more fine grain control, um, what types
of controls do they like?
Do they like to control like who they're looking at or
do they want to see kind of, um, different mixtures?
Um, and is there some sort of consensus about what's good
for people or are there different kind of types of users?
Um, and so to that end, we built this, uh, customization interface,
which for the sake of smoothness, I will probably just show
the screenshots instead of the actual demo.
Um, but find me after I'll show, show the demo.
Um, but basically this like configuration editor, um, which is similar to,
um, I think, uh, tools that others have developed.
Um, uh, but basically, um, on the one hand, you can kind
of tune your, your Skype experience and it'll like responsibly
show you a preview of what your Skype just will look like.
Um, so one thing we're really excited about here is building
good kind of defaults for people to use.
And then seeing which defaults people, um, people gravitate toward,
especially kind of like what, what do people want and what do
people end up using here?
Um, but then we hope to give, um, sort of more flexibility,
um, including like these follow weights.
So like, can you talk, uh, can you kind of, um, put
different weights or like inclusion on your followers?
So for example, if I'm following a bunch of academics, but
I want my papers guide just to mostly be, uh, specifically the
like econ CS academics.
Then I could like filter down to that, um, and then different
weights, both on in terms of like global likes, as well as,
uh, interactions from people I'm following.
Um, and then, oh yeah, this is just showing the time decay,
uh, does things.
Um, and then, uh, and then also, uh, filtering down to specific
categories of content.
So I've here filtered the AI category and, um, uh, these
are like trending things, uh, in the last, uh, you know, 72
hours in, in, uh, in AI.
Um, uh, archive posts and, um, yeah, you can imagine swapping
these out for like sparse auto encoders or other,
um, other, uh, topics.
Like I think, um, I think the child talk had a bunch
of like topics and stuff that we could maybe integrate with.
Um, and then how am I doing for time?
Sorry.
Two minutes.
Okay.
Amazing.
I have time for this.
So, yeah, so this, um, last thing is, is a project I
'm really excited about that is led by Kenny Pung.
Uh, at Cornell tech, um, and this is, uh, yeah, um, yeah,
just a really cool project.
Uh, so we all know that algorithmic feeds are flawed in
many ways.
So, um, there are filter bubbles, there's doom scrolling.
Um, people feel trapped, uh, often in their, in their, uh, um,
by their algorithms and there's kind of extensive research on improving
feed algorithms and understanding the ways in which they fail.
Um, and you're improving fairness, improving diversity, um, uh, but Kenny
's idea is why do we have to be, you know, rest
ricting ourselves to this linear feed interface.
Um, so the original vert, uh, vision of the web was to
browse hypertext, like that's where HTTP comes from.
And this goes all the way back to like the 1950s,
the vision of Vannevar Bush of like, um, uh, uh,
you know, navigating trails of information and how can we, um, you
know, switch between, um, different topics and make connections.
Um, and there's a connection here to the work that Sem
ble's doing, um, also building trails.
Um, and so, uh, well, Semble like, uh, assembles trails,
um, using like human curation, Kenny's idea, um, uh, is,
is, is building trails for interacting with social media through, uh, through
new, um, LLM technology to basically, um, generate these trails
algorithmically.
Um, so he uses sparse autoencoders, which basically
generate interpretable labels for different, um, pieces of content, um, and
excitingly, he implemented this on like a week's worth of
blue sky data.
Um, so you should all check this out.
I'll show a demo in a second, but if you want
to pull it up, um, this is called sky trails and this
is, um, his, uh, basically, uh, blue sky browser.
Um, so if you open sky trails, you can see.
You can see a, uh, selection, a random selection of the trails
that are available, um, and I'm just gonna click into the
PG, Woodhouse, and Jeeves, and here are a bunch
of posts related to this topic, and as I'm scrolling, I
see, okay, now I'm interested in discussions about ChatGP
T, so I click on this trail, and I'm led to
the trail about ChatGPT.
And I can scroll down here, and then, oh, this is really
interesting and esoteric, is seeking or suggesting alternatives.
I'm now on this trail, I can scroll down, oh, stylish
and fashionable aesthetics, so I scroll here, and so now you can
see how I've really navigated the space of content.
I've found things that are kind of cross-cutting these
concepts that you maybe wouldn't have, like, expected even are being
discussed, or, like, certainly there's not gonna be a custom feed
for, like, you know, what was the last one, like, seeking or
suggesting alternatives.
Um, but maybe it's something I'm interested in, and so
there's this, uh, this, um, ability to, like, quickly navigate the
world of content, find new interests, find new discussions that people are
having, um, and so that's the, the idea of post-linear
feeds.
Um, so yeah, with that, um, thank you to our wonderful set
of collaborators, um, including folks in this room, um, like Andra,
and, um, yeah, uh, thank you for listening.
And I also want to shout out the F-Tech Labeler,
um, from the Social Technologies Lab, um, which is the Account Act
ivity Labeler, which I think is quite popular and very effective,
and I'm a big fan, so that's from another group
at Cornell Tech.
Um, so thank you, everyone.
Amazing.
Thank you, Sophie.
Uh, questions, anyone?
Um, it's not really a question, sorry, uh, but, uh, seek,
seek, seek, seek, seek, seek, seek, seek, seek, like, the, um, I,
I like the, the Skytrails.
Um, I like, I like the, the lateral movement through topic space,
uh, the memex-like, um, interface.
Yeah.
You mentioned earlier the, um, possibility of doing Science of Science, using
the data, uh, from your Sky Chest, uh, tool.
I'm curious, are you, are you actively working in that area?
What do you have planned?
Because, as someone who's just dipping his toes into scientomet
rics, you know, this is very exciting, and I'm, I'm
wondering what you're thinking of.
Yeah, thank you.
I think our interest is, like, um, kind of science of academic
communication specifically.
So, understanding, I think our angle will be, like, looking at the,
um, these, like, feed, uh, like, the, the trending algorithm, or, like,
the different algorithm choices we make on Paper Sky Chest, and how
those choices, especially, kind of, interpretable, um, uh, design decisions, impact,
kind of, discourse, and engagement, and, you know, who's coming out.
And, you know, who's following who, and stuff like that.
Um, so that's, I think, the angle that we're interested
in, uh, especially as well as these, kind of, like, more observ
ational questions of, like, across blue sky, like, as we're adjusting
the fires, what are we seeing about, like, what people are talking
about, and, um, engaging with.
Great talk, thanks.
Thanks.
Um, one thing I think a lot about with custom feeds in
the network, and, kind of, and incentives, so you can do these
studies where, like, how does it impact individuals' behaviors through what feeds
they see?
But a lot of what feeds are doing is they're setting,
they're, kind of, like, the rules of the game, and they
end up, you know, certain kinds of content, if they're getting
a lot of traction, or visibility, or people are interacting, even, like,
liking, or following, or getting these social interactions more than just, like,
uh, social media interactions, that will incentivize people to create different
kinds of content, and get, get this big loop going.
Yeah.
And so you change what kinds of content is available through that,
but that's hard to do with, like, an exciting thing with,
with blue sky, the app, and the protocol, is that we can
do these, people can create new things and do experiments pretty easily
for individuals, but it's harder for groups.
Have you, do you have any ideas on how to suss
that out, or try to get, kind of, like, signal through, like,
especially if it's only impacting a smaller part of the overall
graph or network?
Yeah, that's a really interesting question.
I guess there's two aspects to my answer, though.
The first is that, like, this is sort of one of the
things we're excited about, like, with the trending news feed, um,
is looking at, so we did a pilot experiment, like, um, basically
putting a lot of the, uh, the weight, um, on the gray,
these gray multipliers on the reposts, and seeing how
that changed, like, what content was, so we ended up seeing a
lot more, like, um, smaller news organizations were, um, right in the
top, and you ended up seeing, like, sort of, like, sort of
an amplification of, like, you, you created, uh, higher weight on
reposts, and then you saw a lot more repost
s, um, relative to that, other feed.
But I think maybe your question is more just, like, okay, the
trending news feed is, sort of, an outlier in terms of,
like, feed size, and so how can we actually study, um, like,
uh, how these feeds are, are impacting, sort of, things on a
bigger scale when they're small?
And I haven't actually thought of that question, and I'll
think more about it.
Thank you.
Uh, hi.
So, apologies in advance if my question's just, like, completely out
of nowhere, because I'm really sorry I joined your talk late.
Um, but I'm wondering, like, especially looking at the, kind of,
like, trails of conversations and topics that, you know, users and people
are, kind of, posting about, I'm wondering if you've done
a lot of